## CIP 0045

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0045
  Title:  SV Operating Requirements
  Author: Eric Saraniecki
  Status: Final 
  Type: Governance 
  Created: 2025-02-06
  Approved: 2025-02-14
  License: CC1
</pre>

## Abstract

* A few differently weighted Super Validators are currently camping out on the GSF multitenant Super Validator node instead of running their own Super Validator node..
* A series of SV CIPs recently passed giving low weighted SVs the right to use the GSF multitenant for 6 months, but many of those parties are not experienced operators, and the network wouldn’t benefit materially from forcing them to contract to run an SV node.
* This CIP proposes a 2.5 SV weight threshold above which an SV must begin to operate their own SV or their own SV node, or risk forfeiting their SV weight, or their right to be a Super Validator rights owner.

## Copyright

This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

## Motivation

* The GSF multitenant is creating a bit of a free rider problem and it would be beneficial to set some rules around its utilization.
* The Super Validator rights owners have signaled there is a preference to require some Super Validator rights owners to run their own Super Validator nodes over letting in arbitrary operators to the quorum.
* This CIP seeks to set the threshold at which one must run their own Super Validator node.

## Proposed Changes 

* Any Super Validator node with a Reward Weight greater than 2.5 must operate their own SV within 6 months of crossing the 2.5 Weight threshold or, if already over Weight 2.5, within 6 months of this CIP passing.
* Super Validator rights owners in violation of this rule will have an opportunity to plead their case before any vote to address the violation.
* The Super Validator rights owners will raise a vote to address any SV in violation of this rule after the 6 month grace period by reducing the violating Super Validator rights owner's reward weight reward weight down to 1. The large reduction is to account for the extended period of over earning vs their commitment to the Network.
