## CIP 0051

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0051
  Title: Streamline onchain governance votes
  Author: Itai Segall
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet
  Status: Approved
  Type: Governance
  Created: 2025-03-04
  Approved: 2025-03-26
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

## Abstract

This CIP proposes the following changes to on-chain voting:

a) votes on config changes will change individual (or a few) config values, and not the whole set of configurations;

b) vote proposals will have an expiration date, after which if not enough votes have been submitted,
they will be auto-rejected;

c) votes on a proposal may be changed until the vote proposal becomes effective;

d) votes will be early-rejected upon 2/3 majority of reject votes;

e) vote requests can be labeled as "immediate effectivity",
meaning they will automatically get accepted and take effect immediately as soon as 2/3 of the
Super Validator nodes vote in favor.

## Specification

### Vote on Individual Configuration Values

In the new implementation, a vote request will only apply changes to those fields that the
proposer has chosen to change, leaving the others unmodified, regardless of their value at the
time of applying the change.

### Expiration as a Due Date for Enough Votes

Every vote request will have an expiration date. If at the time of expiration, not enough
votes are in (i.e. less than 2/3 of the Super Validators have put in any vote), then the
vote request is immediately considered stale and auto-rejected.

### Vote Proposals Remain Open

The new implementation will allow votes on a proposal to be modified until the point where the action being
voted on is scheduled to go into effect.

The text of a proposal is locked once it is submitted and cannot be modified during voting. The proposal can only be accepted or rejected, or it may expire.


### Early Rejection

In the new implementation, vote requests that collected 2/3 "Reject" votes will immediately
close as rejected.

### Immediate Effectivity

The new implementation will introduce an "immediate effectivity" option for vote proposals. Instead of setting a specific date-time for effectivity, the proposal would become effective immediately upon collecting "Accept" votes from 2/3 of the Super Validator nodes.

Vote proposals that use immediate effectivity would be independent of the expiration date, and may happen prior to the expiration date.  

If there is a desire for the vote proposal to either become effective or expire at the same date-time as its expiration, the submitter may set the "effective date" to the same date-time as the "expiration date"

## Motivation

As the Super Validators developed experience with on-ledger voting, we realized that the current
implementation is too complex, error-prone, and hard to reason about. We've encountered multiple
cases where vote proposals with mistakes have been submitted. These mistakes
could have been avoided with more
intuitive processes, or at least cleared out from the pipeline once a mistake has been identified,
thus making it easier to create a new one with no such mistakes.

## Rationale

### Vote on Individual Configuration Values

In the current implementation, every vote on config changes (e.g. the AmuletConfig, which governs
mining, fees, etc) replaces the entire set of configuration values from the current set to those
specified in the vote request. This has often caused confusion when multiple vote requests were
created roughly at the same time, but their interaction with each other was hard to reason about,
ending up with conflicts, and with votes that accidentally overwrote each other's values.
Limiting the changes that every vote makes to only a select subset of fields will significantly
reduce these kinds of issues.

### Expiration as a Due Date for Enough Votes

We have seen cases of vote requests that fail to attract the attention of operators and linger
in the pipeline for longer than they should. Making the expiration date the deadline for
operators to act upon the vote will help operators keep track of their required actions and
when they are required, as well as clean up stale votes that failed to get attention.

### Votes Remain Open

In the current implementation, once the expiration date on a vote request has passed,
votes on it can no longer be modified. In practice, this has proven to be a burdening
limitation, and Super Validator operators often expressed a need to modify their vote
until the very last minute, i.e. until the corresponding action has become effective.
The new implementation will satisfy that requirement by allowing any vote to be modified
until the point where the vote has become effective.

### Early Rejection

Mistakes happen. We have had several cases on ledger already where vote proposals contained
errors, and the Super Validator operators quickly realized that the vote proposals should be rejected. In the current implementation,
there is no way to quickly get rid of those votes despite wide agreement that they should
be rejected.

### Immediate Effectivity

If a vote passes its expiration date with 2/3 of the SVs in favor, it's highly likely that it will go into effect on chain. For vote proposals that impact application providers and Validator operators, it's helpful to know for certain that a vote will take effect, and then have some time to prepare for this impact. Providing separate expiration and effectivity dates meets this need.

On the other hand, some votes only involve the Super Validators, and have little to no operational impact. And there is also the possibility that the Super Validators could want to introduce a bug fix quickly. In these cases, it would be valuable to apply a vote proposal as soon as possible rather than at a pre-determined future date.

## Backwards compatibility

Vote requests are short-lived. The changes proposed here will apply only to vote requests created
after these changes are applied, and leave past votes intact. The UI of the SV application will
be adapted to match the new logic, but will come into use in sync with the changes in the Daml
models described here.

## Reference implementation

We have started implementing the required changes for this CIP, which include changes in the
governance Daml models, as well as the backend and frontend of the SV application . Access to a test
environment will be provided to all Super Validator Operators to experiment with and comment on
before we finalize the code and finalize the changes.
An early version of the code is available in the [`isegall/tmp-gov-votes`](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/splice/tree/isegall/tmp-gov-votes) branch
on the [Splice repo](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/splice), including
the required Daml changes, backend changes as well as frontend.
To review the Daml changes, one can clone the repo locally and run
`git diff isegall/tmp-gov-votes main -- daml`.


## Copyright

This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
