## CIP 0052

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0052
  Title:  Monstera FZE as a SV of Weight 5
  Author: Eric W Saraniecki 
  Status: Approved 
  Type: Governance 
  Created: 2025-03-14
  Approved: 2025-05-13
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

## Abstract:
Add Monstera as an SV of Weight 5

## About Applicant:
Monstera is the digital asset focused subsidiary of the wider Witan Group.

David Stern is Chairman of the Witan Group, a private investment company that operates from Hong Kong, Beijing, London and Dubai.

Mr. Stern is currently Vice Chairman of Sphere Entertainment Co., a premier live entertainment and media company. The first Sphere venue opened in Las Vegas in September 2023 and is a next-generation entertainment medium that is redefining the future of live entertainment.

Mr. Stern is a serial entrepreneur and started a China-focused advisory business in 2001, before founding the data technology company CMDS which was sold in 2010 to a UK listed FTSE-250 company.

In 2016 Mr. Stern became Chairman of Celestial, a joint venture between his Witan Group and a Fortune 500 company. In 2017 Mr. Stern was a founding investor of Canoo, a US electric vehicle company, which listed on Nasdaq in 2020 at a US$2.4 billion valuation.

Mr. Stern is currently Supervisory Board Member of the Holy Fashion Group in Switzerland and Advisory Board Member of the University of Cambridge Judge Business School.


## Deliverables for full SV Reward:

| Deliverable | Acceptance Criteria | Deadline | Weight Earned |
|------------|---------------------|----------|----------------|
| Add strategic participants to the Canton Network | Monstera successfully integrates approved new network adopters with assets issued on the Global Synchronizer (eg USDC, USYC) and the approved party executes their first transaction on MainNet.<br><br>Example potential participants include (connection in parentheses):<br><br>**APAC**:<br>• Tokyo Dome / Mitsui Fudosan (Chairman)<br>• Sun Hung Kai & Co (CEO & Majority Shareholder)<br>• Air Asia (Founder & CEO)<br><br>**Middle East**:<br>• Mashreq Bank (CEO)<br>• Dubai Stock Exchange (CEO)<br>• Abu Dhabi First Bank (Board Member)<br><br>**Europe**:<br>• Deutsche Bank (Board Member)<br>• Munich Re (Board Member)<br><br>**LATAM**:<br>• Salinas Group (Founder, Chairman) | +180 Days | 0.5 per approved participant<br>_Up to a maximum of SV Weight of 5_ |


## Milestone Mechanics: 
* The GSF Tokenomics committee commits to deliberate each proposed participant and clearly notify Monstera if the participant would count against the commitment quota 
* Monstera will meet with the GSF Tokenomics committee once every 30 days and provide a progress report towards stated commitments

## SV Reward Mechanics: 
* An `extraBeneficiary` PartyID associated with the ‘escrowed’ Super Validator will be setup by the GSF with an SV Weight at the maximum earnable weight in the CIP that granted rights to that Super Validator.
    * The Applicant is responsible for all costs associated with the operation of the escrow SV
    * The escrow SV will NOT mint rewards on a block by block basis
    * All escrow SV rewards will go to the Unclaimed Rewards pool
* ⅔ of the Super Validator Operators will update their configurations to allow GSF to host the full weight to be earned by the given Super Validator
* Applicant is required to present proof of successful completed milestones to the Tokenomics Working Group
    * Applicant is required to present a calculation for number of Canton Coin it should earn for meeting the requirements of the milestone
* If the Tokenomics Working Group agrees the milestone has been met and agrees with the calculation, an announcement will be sent via the Tokenomics-Announce mailing List
    * The GSF will update the `extraBeneficiary` to an active PartyID controlled by that Super Validator. 
    * ⅔ of Super Validator Operators will then assign a portion of the Unclaimed Rewards to be minted by the Applicant’s Validator, based on the calculation approved by the Tokenomics working group.
   
* If any milestones and associated rewards are not achieved by the deadline
    * Applicant will be notified they have not met a deliverable by the GSF 
    * Remaining SV Weight assigned to the `extraBeneficiary` SV will be removed from the GSF node configuration, and the total SV weight of the GSF SV node will be reduced by the same amount by a vote of the Super Validators.
    * The Tokenomics Working Group will make a recommendation to the SVs on what to do with the Unclaimed Rewards 
* Applicant is subject to CIP-0045 : SV Operating Requirements
    * If, at any time, the Applicant has been rewarded SV Weight > 2.5, they are required to operate their SV within 6 months of crossing that Weight. This SV node will join the network with a weight 0 and will add weights as the SV meets the milestones defined in this CIP. 

## Copyright

This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

## Changelog

* **2025-03-14:** Initial draft of the proposal.
* **2025-03-19:** Update for underperformance. 
* **2025-04-14:** Add provisional minting based on Tokenomics new process.
* **2025-05-13** Approved CIP
