## CIP 0046

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0046
  Title:  Add Coin Metrics as a Weight 1 Super Validator 
  Author: Eric Saraniecki 
  Status: Approved 
  Type: Governance 
  Created: 2025-01-31
  Approved: 2025-02-14
  License: CC1
</pre>

## Abstract

* Add Coin Metrics as a Weight 1 Super Validator.
* Coin Metrics agrees to integrate Canton MainNet data into their analytics products.

## Copyright

This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).


## Motivation

* Coin Metrics was founded in 2017 as an open-source project to determine the economic significance of public blockchains. Today, Coin Metrics licenses data products to many of the largest, most prominent names in the TradFi & cryptoasset space.
* Canton Network's current and future participants represent many of the same users and clients of Coin Metrics data products. Coin Metrics supporting Canton would allow insightful, aggregate network and market data metrics for Canton alongside a wide variety of other cryptoasset networks.


## About Coin Metrics 

* Coin Metrics promotes transparency and has set the industry standard for how crypto networks and assets are monitored and analyzed. We provide a true collaborative partnership to articulate the nuances of different cryptoassets, while remaining impartial in the derivation and analysis of indicators, metrics, and benchmarks.
* Coin Metrics is trusted by leading institutions due to data quality and reliability:
  * Hundreds of data monitors compare data to third parties, check for internal consistency and measure timeliness.
  * A data quality team investigates data issues and conducts a daily human-review of prices while SREs proactively monitor infrastructure.
  * The customer-facing support team quickly responds to customer inquiries and resolves or escalates any issues.
  * Redundancy everywhere ensures high data availability for the most reliable dataset in cryptoassets, and SOC 2 Type 2 certification.

## Proposed Changes 

* Increase the GSF’s minting weight +1 and assign to Coin Metrics.
* Coin Metrics will take over operations of their own SV no later than 6 months after the approval of this CIP unless the SV pool prevents expansion to accommodate a new operator in that time frame.
