## CIP 0037

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0037
  Title:  Add Obsidian as a Tier3 SV 
  Author: Eric Saraniecki
  Status: Draft 
  Type: Governance 
  Created: 2025-02-13
  License: CC1
</pre>

## Abstract

* Add [Obsidian](http://obsidian.systems) as a Tier3 SV (Weight 1).
* Obsidian commits to add a Maintainer to the Hyperledger Splice.
* Obsidian will meaningfully contribute to the repos at least once per month for 2 years, focusing on issues [here](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/splice/issues), but without an obligation to complete all listed tasks.



## Copyright

This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).


## Motivation

* The Daml, Canton, and Splice repos benefit tremendously from expanding the universe of parties who can commit to and maintain them.
* Taking the time to understand how the code works and making the investment to maintain that code is a significant undertaking.
* Some organizations are well-structured for this, with a rotating cast of developers who apply Daml, Canton, and Splice to commercial use cases and then contribute to the core codebase.
* Advanced tooling to support application development, deployment, and the like improve the DX around the entire ecosystem.

## About Obsidian

* Obsidian Systems designs and develops high quality software solutions to pressing business problems. Our experienced team has delivered mission-critical solutions to a variety of high-profile clients, including several Fortune 500 companies and national retail firms. These solutions are currently used by thousands of employees and tens of thousands of consumers every day.

## About Hyperledger Splice

* Hyperledger Splice provides governance and incentivization applications for operating decentralized Canton synchronizers.
* [Current requests for work on Splice can be found here.](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/splice/issues).



## Proposed Changes 

* Increase the GSF’s minting weight +1 and assign to Obsidian
* Obsidian will take over operations of their own SV no later than 6 months after the approval of this CIP, unless the SV pool prevents expansion to accommodate a new operator in that timeframe

